# Entanglement-based-QKD-with-Quantum-Computing-E91-protocol-
In this project, I intend to simulating entanglement based QKD (the E91 protocol) in quantum computers. I demonstrate that the secure key rate depends on the selected quantum hardware qubit-pair on which the experiment is executed, in the sense that the pair of qubit with lower two-qubit error provide lower QBER and higher key length.




<h2>Introduction</h2>
Quantum key distibution (QKD) is a direct application of quantum mechanics. It consists of generating a secret key using quantum mechanics principles, such as entanglement, no-clonning theorem, and non-locality of quantum particles. The security of QKD relies on those principles in comparison to clssical key distribution whose security relies on complexity. QKD was first introduced by Bennett and Brassard in 1984, with their famous BB84 protocol. This led to sevral other protocols later which includes, the E91 (Ekert 1991), the B92 (Bennett 1992), etc. The latest are entanglement based protocols, while the former is a prepare-and-measure protocol. 

In this project however, we focus on E91 protocol, using quantum computers. In this protocol, the legitimate users (Ange the sender and Bill the receiver) share entangled qubits (photonic qubits) prepared on the sender's side (i.e. by Ange). We assume that Ange's and  Bill's quantum labs are physically separated, but linked by a quantum channel, which can be under the control of an untrustrued third party (i.e. an eavesdroper Eve). We also assume that this quantum channel sends qubits to their respective  quantum computers that are  used to measure the  state of the qubit, and generate by the way a secret key. To assure the secrecy of the protocol, the legitimate users compute the Clauser-Horn-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality based on their respective measurement results, whose value should determine whether the qubits exchanged through the quantum channel were subject to interferrence or not. The latest shows therefore a high importance to determine whether the communication beteewn legitimate user is been listerned by Eve or not, since the action of Eve on the qubits will inevitably introduce errors that modify the correlation. Thus this protocol sounds very interesting and promising for secure communication with recent developments of quantum computers, with error corrected qubits. That means one is able to prepare entangled qubits with long enough decoherence time and also determine (or measure) its exact state with a high probability.
